.\" Man page for gcal-organizer
.TH GCAL-ORGANIZER 1 "February 2026" "v1.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gcal-organizer \- automate meeting note organization, calendar syncing, and task assignment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gcal-organizer
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ flags ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gcal-organizer
is a CLI tool that automates meeting note organization using Google Workspace APIs
and Gemini AI. It runs a 3-step workflow:
.PP
.B Step 1: Organize
\- Finds meeting docs matching a naming pattern (e.g.,
.IR "Notes - Topic - 2026-02-08" )
and organizes them into topic-based subfolders under a master folder in Google Drive.
Owned documents are moved; shared documents get shortcuts.
.PP
.B Step 2: Sync Calendar
\- Scans recent calendar events for attachments, creates meeting folders,
links attachments as Drive shortcuts, and shares folders and attachments
with all event attendees (writer access).
.PP
.B Step 3: Assign Tasks
\- Extracts checkbox items from Google Docs, uses Gemini AI to identify
assignees, and automates Chrome via Playwright to click the native
"Assign as a task" widget in Google Docs.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B run
Execute the full 3-step workflow.
.TP
.B organize
Step 1 only: organize documents into topic folders.
.TP
.B sync-calendar
Step 2 only: sync calendar attachments to meeting folders.
.TP
.B assign-tasks \-\-doc \fIID\fR
Step 3 only: assign tasks from a specific Google Doc.
.TP
.B auth login
Authenticate with Google via OAuth2.
.TP
.B auth status
Check current authentication status.
.TP
.B config show
Display current configuration.
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B \-\-dry-run
Show what would be done without making any changes.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable detailed output.
.TP
.B \-\-days \fIN\fR
Number of days to look back for calendar events (default: 8).
Available on
.B run
and
.B sync-calendar
commands.
.TP
.B \-\-config \fIFILE\fR
Path to config file (default: ~/.gcal-organizer/config.yaml).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GEMINI_API_KEY
Required. GCP API key for Gemini AI.
.TP
.B GCAL_MASTER_FOLDER_NAME
Master folder name in Google Drive (default: "Meeting Notes").
.TP
.B GCAL_DAYS_TO_LOOK_BACK
Days to scan for calendar events (default: 8).
.TP
.B GCAL_FILENAME_KEYWORDS
Comma-separated keywords to filter documents (default: "Notes,Meeting").
.TP
.B GCAL_FILENAME_PATTERN
Regex for parsing document names (default: (.+)\\s*-\\s*(\\d{4}-\\d{2}-\\d{2})).
.TP
.B GEMINI_MODEL
Gemini model to use (default: gemini-1.5-flash).
.TP
.B CHROME_PROFILE_PATH
Path to Chrome profile for browser automation.
.TP
.B GCAL_ORGANIZER_BIN
Override path to the gcal-organizer binary (used by the service wrapper).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.gcal-organizer/credentials.json
Google OAuth2 client credentials.
.TP
.I ~/.gcal-organizer/token.json
Stored OAuth2 token (auto-generated on first login).
.TP
.I ~/.gcal-organizer/config.yaml
Configuration file (optional, env vars take precedence).
.TP
.I ~/.gcal-organizer/.env
Environment file loaded by the service wrapper.
.SH SERVICE
.B gcal-organizer
can run as an hourly background service:
.PP
.RS
.B brew services start gcal-organizer
.RE
.PP
Or via Makefile targets:
.PP
.RS
.nf
make install-service    # Install (auto-detects OS)
make uninstall-service  # Remove
make service-status     # Show state
make service-logs       # Recent logs
make service-trigger    # Run immediately
.fi
.RE
.PP
The service runs with GCAL_DAYS_TO_LOOK_BACK=1 to process the last day of events.
On macOS it uses launchd; on Linux it uses systemd user timers.
.SH DATA PRIVACY
Only the text of individual checkbox items is sent to Gemini AI for assignee
extraction. Full document contents are never uploaded. OAuth tokens and
credentials are stored locally and never transmitted.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run the full workflow with verbose output:
.B gcal-organizer run --verbose
.TP
Dry-run to preview changes:
.B gcal-organizer run --dry-run
.TP
Sync only the last 3 days of calendar events:
.B gcal-organizer sync-calendar --days 3
.TP
Assign tasks from a specific document:
.B gcal-organizer assign-tasks --doc 1aBcDeFgHiJkLmNoPqRsTuVwXyZ
.SH AUTHORS
Jason Flowers
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR brew-services (1)
.PP
Full documentation: https://github.com/jflowers/gcal-organizer
